Terraform-provider-esxi plugin
==============================
This is a Terraform plugin that adds a VMware ESXi provider support.  This allows Terraform to control and provision VMs directly on an ESXi hypervisor without a need for vCenter or VShpere.   ESXi hypervisor is a free download from VMware!
>https://www.vmware.com/go/get-free-esxi

What's New:
-----------
* Resource pools should be fully functional.  Terraform will Add, Delete, Update & Read Resource Pools.
* Guest vms framework is there.  Terraform will Add, Delete & Read the Guest vms.   More functionality to come.


Documentation:
-------------
* This is an early development release!!!   There is only some basic functionality and very little validation.   Error messages are limited.  I'll add features and update documentation as time permits...

Features and Compatibility
--------------------------
* Source image can be a clone of a VM or local vmx, ovf, ova file. This provider uses ovftool, so there should be a wide compatibility.
* Supports adding your VM to Resource Pools to partition CPU and memory usage from other VMs on your ESXi host.
* Disks can be provisioned using thin, thick or eagerzeroedthick.

Requirements
------------
1. This is a Terraform plugin, so you need Terraform installed...  :-)
2. This plugin requires ovftool from VMware.  Download from VMware website.  NOTE: ovftool installer for windows doesn't put ovftool.exe in your path.  You can manually set your path, or install ovftool in the \HashiCorp\Vagrant\bin directory.
>https://www.vmware.com/support/developer/ovf/
3. You MUST enable ssh access on your ESXi hypervisor.
  * Google 'How to enable ssh access on esxi'
4. In general, you should know how to use terraform, esxi and some networking...

Why this plugin?
----------------
Not everyone has vCenter, vSphere, expensive APIs...  These cost $$$.  ESXi is free!

How to install
--------------
Download and install Terraform on your local system using instructions from https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html.
Download this plugin from github and place a copy of it in SOMEDIR.

How to use and configure a main.tf file
---------------------------------------

1. cd SOMEDIR
2. `vi main.tf`  # Use the contents of this example main.tf as a template. Specify provider parameters to access your ESXi host.  Modify the resources for resource pools and guest vm.

```
provider "esxi" {
  esxi_hostname      = "esxi"
  esxi_hostport      = "22"
  esxi_username      = "root"
  esxi_password      = "MyPassword"
}
resource "esxi_resource_pool" "MyPool" {
  resource_pool_name = "MyPool"
  cpu_min            = "100"
  mem_min            = "200"
}
resource "esxi_guest" "vmtest" {
  depends_on         = ["esxi_resource_pool_name.MyPool"]
  guest_name         = "v-test"

  # Use clone_from_vm or ovf_source as a source.
  clone_from_vm      = "Templates/centos7"
  #ovf_source        = "/my_local_system_path/centos-7-min/centos-7.vmx"

  disk_store         = "MyDiskStore"
  resource_pool_name = "MyPool"
  network_interfaces = [
    {
      virtual_network = "VM Network"
      mac_address     = "00:50:56:a1:b1:c1"
      nic_type        = "e1000"
    },
    {
      virtual_network = "VM Network 2"
      nic_type        = "e1000"
    },
  ]
}
```

Basic usage
-----------
3. `terraform init`
4. `terraform plan`
5. `terraform apply`
6. `terraform show`
7. `terraform destroy`

Configuration reference
-----------------------
* provider "esxi"
  * esxi_hostname
  * esxi_hostport
  * esxi_username
  * esxi_password
* resource "esxi_resource_pool"
  * resource_pool_name
  * cpu_min           
  * cpu_min_expandable
  * cpu_max           
  * cpu_shares        
  * mem_min           
  * mem_min_expandable
  * mem_max           
  * mem_shares        
* resource "esxi_guest"
  * guest_name - The Guest name.   
  * clone_from_vm - Source vm to clone. Mutually exclusive with ovf_source option.     
  * ovf_source - ovf files to use as a source. Mutually exclusive with clone_from_vm option.      
  * disk_store - Esxi Disk Store where guest vm will be created.    
  * resource_pool_name - (optional), Any resource pool name.     
  * memsize - Memory size in MB.  (ie, 1024 == 1GB)
  * numvcpus - Number of virtual cpus.
  * network_interfaces - Array of network interfaces.
    * virtual_network - Esxi virtual network name.
    * mac_address - (optional), If not set, mac_address will be generated by esxi.
    * nic_type - (optional), defaults 'e1000'.    

Known issues with vmware_esxi
-----------------------------
* Limited Features
* Passwords are stored in clear-text in main.tf.
* Sources (ovf_source) must have no networks configured.


Version History
---------------
* 0.0.5 Add network_interfaces.
* 0.0.4 Add more stuff.
* 0.0.3 Add support for setting memory and numvcpus for guest,
      Add support to update some guests params.
* 0.0.2 Add support for Resource Pools
* 0.0.1 Init release
